Previously on "The Path"...
- What if we're wrong about
our exemption application
being recalled?
- We don't have any money, Cal.
- Please, take a seat.
- Who the hell is that?
- That's Sarah Lane.
And that is why the exemption
is so very important
to us, Lisa...
'cause what you did
will never, ever go away.
- I need you to get
in the car, sweetheart.
- Sean, listen to your mother.
- Sean, my name
is Wendy Kennair.
- She's gonna help you, Sean...
- You, Mary, and our grandchild.
You're getting out.
- Jacqueline Richards?
You contributed on behalf
of your daughter, Noa,
to our cause.
- I'm a friend of your son's.
- My son?
- I'm afraid he's out of town.
- Your doctor, Steven Meyer...
- He hurt him.
- I picked a son,
but he was the wrong son.
- You will build The Garden,
and we will follow you there.
*
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Sometimes I was with
both of them on the same night.
Some nights, I would have dinner
with Katie and the kids
and then make up some excuse,
like leaving
for a business trip,
and then go back to Tracy
for the rest of the week.
*
Why are you doing this?
It's something I'm dealing with.
It's my life.
- Your lives, plural, Don.
- Fuck you.
You came to us
drowning in guilt,
overwhelmed, and talking
about taking your own life.
We helped you.
We asked you to search
within yourself
to figure out why you were
doing what you were doing
and why you started
two separate families
both built on lies;
to ask yourself why
you felt so compelled
to deceive so many people.
And we talked you
off the ledge of suicide,
but you weren't willing
to uncover the mystery of you.
We talked to you, but you didn't
want to do any real work,
and now you've made
a very successful life
built on Transgressions.
And it's all very delicate.
Your fragile house of lies...
It could collapse at any moment.
*
- Sorry for the delay.
- No problem.
*
- I'll get you a receipt.
- You look like you want someone
to come over and talk to you.
I'm Father Cates.
- You know, I used to come
to this church when I was a kid.
- Really?
- Yeah.
- Welcome back, then.
Ah, 20 years, so...
Father Deans.
- Yeah.
Wow, Father Deans.
Jesus, I never would've
remembered that name.
You weren't here then, were you?
- No, I was still a kid
in Washington State,
thinking I wanted to be
a doctor like my dad.
- How did you decide
to join the church?
- Are you considering
entering the priesthood?
- No, no, I was just, uh...
just curious.
I mean, did something happen
that made you sure
that you were supposed
to work for Him?
- Uh, no is the short answer.
Would it be helpful
to tell me what it is
you're deciding to do
or not to do?
Ah, I guess
you could say that...
I'm hearing a call.
- Well, listening
can be terrifying.
But the thought of not listening
can be even worse.
- I don't know.
Just feels like a crapshoot
either way.
- Well, certainty that
this is my life's work
is tested every day.
But if it's a mistake,
I'd make it again.
Faith is inspiring
divisiveness, destruction,
hate, and greed.
And the tragic irony
is that faith
is meant to inspire compassion
and empathy and love.
- And would this Dr. Meyer
himself be speaking,
were we to find room
in the schedule?
- No, uh, my colleague and I
speak on behalf
of the Movement now.
But we are deeply interested
in participating
in your conference.
We... we have much to contribute
and much to learn, as well.
They must have squeezed
some of their donors.
No shit.
And just like that,
any leverage we had
with them up to their ass
in back taxes is gone.
And you had no idea they were
coming up with a plan
to wiggle out of the noose.
You're inside,
and yet we learn about this
before you do.
Do you even recognize
any of these people
who coughed up cash
to pay off their IRS debt?
Don Hendren, Martina Bill,
Pete Gilchrist...
All of these people are level 3R
at the highest.
They're practicing Meyerists,
but they...
They're not living it full-time.
- Just figure out
what the hell is going on
and how we can use it.
- Listen, I-I don't know
how this happened,
but I will figure out
what's going on.
Damn it!
*
Felicia, what are you...
- Richard told me everything.
But I need to hear it from you.
*
I just can't keep
running from this.
- He bears its mark on his back.
- Or it's just a wound...
A wound from the lightning.
- Well...
- He's meant to lead us,
Felicia.
I'm convinced.
- Well, that must be nice.
I-I'm sorry.
This is difficult to process.
Three days ago, I had
every reason to believe
that Steve had fulfilled
his work for us.
Now I have to accept
this new story
that you're meant to guide us.
I get it.
Certainty is a white whale.
- There's only one way to know.
Climb.
You need to continue
the climb, 8R.
*
Excuse me, sir?
- What?
- We're here.
This is the address
you gave me, right?
*
- Have you read it?
- Uh, no, but I saw the movie.
- It's black and white, right?
- Yes.
Well, Kansas is black and white,
but Oz is in color.
The land of Oz
is entirely green,
but the inhabitants are wearing
these green-colored glasses,
and they don't know that
their world is the same colors
as everyone else's.
Their "leader" is called
the Wizard of Oz,
but really, he's just
a regular guy from Kansas
that has everyone fooled.
- Thanks for letting us
throw you a baby shower.
- Uh, how do you two
know each other again?
- Oh...
- College.
- We're old friends.
I hope you enjoy the book.
I'll be curious
what you see in it,
living how you...
Well, where you do.
They don't tell you what you
can and can't read, do they?
- Can we be done, please?
I'm tired, and this food
is terrible.
- I'm ready to, uh, move ahead
with the sale of the center in...
In New York...
- I have news.
- Humble myself to the Council.
And if they feel they need me
to step aside...
- Cal...
- No, no.
That is the best course
of action right now.
- It's over.
I made a few phone calls,
and a few donors stepped up.
- What?
- I paid the back taxes
on this place.
- I-I...
How... how did you get
donors to do that?
- I didn't sugarcoat.
I let them know how dire
the situation was.
It's a Band-Aid,
but it buys us some time.
Cal?
- No, no, um...
uh, I just, um...
Everything's gonna be okay?
- I mean, we're far
from being in the clear.
We still need to put other
sources of revenue in motion.
- Yeah, of course, yeah.
- And there's the World Faith
Conference in Boston.
Very mainstream.
Deepak Chopra, Tony Robbins...
and we'll be speaking.
- That's exciting.
- I got us on the schedule.
Main stage, second day.
- Wow, you...
Wow, that's great, Sarah.
- This could be the beginning
of something new for us,
you know, a way to...
monetize our message.
Open it up to corporate events.
You know, uh,
executive training, you know.
- Yeah.
- We can do this.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- You know, we have
to face reality, right?
We've certainly had a...
A good dose of that recently.
You're gonna be great
with this audience.
- We'll be great.
Uh, so, I, uh...
I'll just, uh...
I'll just settle back in,
and I'll catch up
with you later.
- Is there anything that you
want to talk to me about?
- All... all the...
- These donations, they were...
They were voluntary, right?
- Of course.
- Yeah.
*
- Hey.
- Did you hear?
The IRS stuff...
It's over.
- I heard Cal might've
had to go to jail.
Is that true?
- I don't...
- Don't think so.
Who said that?
Please.
Stop.
- You're out of shape.
- Chasing after you
is exhausting.
I like it, though.
I'm sorry that I-I was a...
- Dick?
- Dick.
I am.
- It's all right.
- I was wondering if you...
if you want to come
to dinner with me.
- Yeah, fine.
- Where you thinking?
- My mom's?
- You're really doing
the "bring the girl home"
"to meet the family" thing?
- Yeah, yeah.
- I am, yeah.
- Why?
- I've met your family.
- I know. I-I just...
I want you with me
when I go home.
- You're so "aww, shucks,"
it's incredible.
Yeah, I'll go.
This is a token
of our appreciation
for your incredibly
generous donation.
The Movement thanks you.
Uh, you are an inspiration.
Honestly, thank you.
- What do you want?
I've done enough.
My family is in there.
- They blackmailed you too,
didn't they?
*
- They played you
your unburdening sessions?
*
- Welcome.
- Thanks so much for having me.
- Oh, I'm just so happy
that Hawk wanted to bring you.
- She's a good one, this one.
- I know she is.
- Hawk's back.
- Hey, kid.
I missed you.
Hey, I got someone
I want you to meet.
- Noa, this is my sister Summer.
- Nice to meet you.
Are you Hawk's girlfriend?
You've got something
on your face.
What you got on your face?
No, on your face.
You are Light in your world
because you are your world.
You are capable.
You are...
- Sorry, hon, I should have
turned it off.
- Uh, where was I?
- Uh, "You are capable
of summiting"
the mountain of your spirit."
- Okay, um, you guys
don't have to do this.
I can get Cal to run it...
- Just relax.
- Remember your breath.
- I want to summit the mountain
of my spirit.
You don't have to do this, Mom.
You saved the city center.
You don't...
have to go pump up
a bunch of CEOs.
- Well, it's not just
a bunch of CEOs, Hawk.
- Look, I'm just saying,
we can focus
on the real work now...
The important work we're doing.
- Hawk's right
about one thing, though,
and we should take
a moment to, uh,
acknowledge it.
Sarah saved our asses.
And I-I got to say,
I was pretty nervous there.
- Yeah, he couldn't sleep.
- No.
- I'd come downstairs;
you'd just be sitting there.
No, I honestly thought
it all might be
coming to an end.
- They're heartless gangsters.
- We're just happy
that some people stepped up.
- You got them to do that.
You dragged us back
from the brink.
We're lucky to have you.
And not just the family...
The entire Movement.
- Although we really should be
thanking the people
who wrote the checks.
- All right, Nicole, just...
- Nicole is right, Russel.
- Thank you.
I don't know; maybe that was
wrong of me to say,
but I feel like you're
awfully critical of me lately.
- What are you talking about?
- I don't have a family.
- I gave mine up.
- They gave you up.
- We're your family, Nicole.
- They did. They gave me up.
- We love you like our own.
- Nicole is absolutely right.
The people who wrote the checks
made the real sacrifice.
- But you worked for it.
- Sorry you have
to watch us like this.
Not fun, I know.
- You kidding?
I'm always impressed
when I see a family
actually say anything
to each other.
My family doesn't ever talk.
We just hate each other
silently.
- You should take
the compliment, Mom.
You deserve it.
I'll be right back.
*
- I'm going to Boston...
Going to, uh, speak
at a conference there.
My mother died.
- I'm sorry.
- Yeah.
It's just over, then, huh?
Once they go, that's...
That's it.
Done.
- Have you read
"The Wizard of Oz"?
- Um, I watched the movie.
- Mothers are like Oz.
Everyone expects them
to be able to give you
a home, a heart, and a brain,
but mostly they're just
fucked-up people.
Why are you reading
"The Wizard of Oz"?
- Why are you here?
*
I'm a husk, Mary.
I want to be vapor.
I want to metamorphose.
We could do it together.
You know...
Swim in the sea.
What do you say?
- He's kicking.
- Oh, holy shit, he really is.
Does he do that all the time?
- Yeah.
You're tired.
- So am I.
*
- The Eighth Rung of The Ladder
is devoted to the pursuit
of mending.
There's a tapestry that is
our collective existence,
and it's frayed.
Find a tear,
and think about ways
to sew it up.
*
- Has the 27 bus come yet?
- You know, I-I don't know.
I'm just... just sitting here.
Not waiting for a bus or...
anything, specifically.
- I'm not sure if that sounds
wonderful or horrible.
- Yeah, me neither.
Hey, sir, it's right...
Sir?
*
- Uh, we have time
to go over our speech,
grab some lunch.
I'd love to see
Mata Amritanandamayi.
She comes on
the main stage at 4:00.
- If you have an M.Div.,
what degree is that?
Is it Master of Divinity?
- Uh, I believe so.
- That sounds about right.
- M.T.S.?
- Theological Studies, I think.
- Master.
- Yeah. The shuttle's this way.
- Uh, I think I'm just gonna
walk around a bit,
maybe take in
some of the lectures.
- We should probably
go over this at least once.
- No, best to keep it fresh.
- But, Cal...
- Don't want it
to sound rehearsed, you know.
That's the worst thing
we could do with this crowd.
Call me when you're
heading back over.
It's hurtful, it's hateful,
not to mention
counter-fucking-productive.
- It's a big idea, certainly.
- This wasn't some idea
I came up with
out of the blue, okay?
This was a vision...
Same as when I saw
that Steve was sick.
You are either with me,
or you are not.
- Envisioning faceless people
doesn't necessarily mean
unraveling a policy
that's been around for...
- See, you don't even remember
when the Denier policy started.
- '81 or '82.
- No, when The Movement
started to grow,
Steve realized that he needed
to find a way
to contain the people...
That is it.
- You're suggesting
he was corrupt?
- It was never a policy
to shun Deniers.
Some of us chose to say
good-bye to people in our lives
because they became toxic
to our growth...
To our climb.
Really?
So that's why you said good-bye
to Jeremiah
when he stopped believing?
Because he was toxic
to your growth?
- Yes.
- That is bullshit.
Once we decided that even our
own loved ones were dead to us
because they didn't believe
exactly in what we did,
we probably stopped truly...
loving then too.
- I can see why you want this.
You've suffered
by that ideology.
- This has nothing
to do with me.
- You sure about that?
Don't forget it's
ego of the individual
that always threatens
the good of the whole.
- Fuck!
- Fuckin' shelf.
- You okay?
- Hey.
- Are you okay?
- Uh, I don't know.
No.
Sorry, maybe it's just
postpartum.
Ugh, that's such
a shitty excuse.
- Excuse for what?
- It's all Russel.
- Mm.
- His family, his world.
My family disowned me
when I left their church,
The Scent of Jesus in Flushing.
- What does Christ
smell like again?
- You're not a member.
- Mm-mm.
- Sometimes I wonder if every
move I've made in my life
has been to spite them.
- Yeah, I've felt like that.
- Have you ever felt like
the choices you made
were never choices?
Like the life you have
has been...
assigned to you?
- Yeah, I have felt
like that, yeah.
Kind of feel like that now.
You know, Nicole,
I, uh...
- Yeah?
- You know, I...
I like you.
I really do.
I-I just, you know...
I-I can't, um...
- I just...
Sometimes I want something...
One thing...
That's just mine.
Not the family,
not The Movement...
Just about me.
- I want you to know,
whatever happens
in this moment...
It's real...
for me.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Wait, w-wait a minute.
You're not gonna go
and unburden out loud
about this afterwards, are you?
- This is not the kind of thing
I want on tape,
hanging around the archive room.
- The unburdening tapes
are in the archive room?
*
* It don't matter anymore *
* Who's keeping score
* Nobody wins
* When the hurtin' stones
begin *
* I'm too tired tonight
* I'm too tired to fight
- Hey, uh, Tessa?
- Yes?
- Hi, um, my name's Eddie Lane.
I, uh...
I married your sister, Sarah.
- Wow.
- Yeah.
- You're the one, huh?
Holy shit.
Listen, I'm sorry, but I'm
gonna have to ask you to leave.
I'm done with Meyerism
and all its bullshit.
- I left too.
- You left... out?
- Yeah.
- Well, shit.
Um, why don't we go downstairs?
I'll buy you a cup of coffee.
- That sounds great.
- One cup of coffee.
- Cal, where the hell are you?
What have you been doing?
I've been looking
everywhere for you.
- Sorry, uh, um...
I can't do this.
Um...
you're gonna have
to go on alone.
- Cal, listen.
I know losing your mom...
- No, no, no, Sarah,
you should do this, all right?
You're the one who saved us.
You're the real
Guardian of the Light.
You... you can do this.
- I don't want to do this alone.
- Yeah, but I can't do it.
I can't do it.
I can't do it at all.
- That's not fair.
- It's not a choice.
- It's not for me either.
I can't articulate
my conviction right now.
- Well, I'm...
I'm not sure I have any
conviction left to articulate.
Quite the pickle we're in,
being that we are
at the World Faith Conference.
- We're scheduled to go onstage
in less than an hour.
*
I blackmailed them.
All of them.
The donors.
You knew that, though, right?
So do this for me.
Do this for what I have done.
Do it for me,
if for nothing else,
or we have nothing.
Make people believe.
Make me believe. Okay?
Okay?
*
- First...
- Yes?
- I want to be clean
in your Eye.
Yes. Yes.
- I want to wash away
our Damage.
- I want to be clean
in your Eye.
- Because I...
I see myself...
reflected in you.
With my Eye...
I see you anew.
With my Eye, I see you anew.
- I see you anew.
*
It's over.
- What's over? Us?
We never were, Kodiak.
- I wish I was
referring to us, Gab.
I mean this...
What Steve built.
- But Sarah saved it.
We're gonna be fine.
- Things are gonna get ugly.
- What? Why?
Tell me.
You're scaring me.
Did Sarah do something?
- It's all
smoke and mirrors, Gab...
All of this.
I needed Steve to be a God,
and so he was.
He needed me to be this madman,
a... a victim he could save,
and so I was.
- I don't understand.
- Escape.
Don't go down with it.
Come with me.
*
- Don't you want to just
scream in your family's face,
"I exist.
You can't ignore me.
I'm a fucking human being"?
- Of course I do.
- Don't you think I do?
I've obsessed about this
for years.
I've had hundreds
of hours of therapy.
But you can't change
other people.
You cannot get them
to see what you see.
- No, no, I don't...
- I don't buy that.
Okay? That's giving up.
This needs to be fixed.
All those broken families...
It's not fucking fair.
- Grow the fuck up.
- Hey, Tessa, I'm... I'm sor...
- Tessa.
- Hi, I'm... I'm taking over
for Andrea.
Can I get you a refill?
- Ashley?
- Hi. Oh, my God.
- Wow.
- Uh, how's Hawk?
- I don't know.
We're not talking right now.
It's a long story.
Uh, I do know he's living
in the city.
Did you know that?
- A clear sensorium
and complex perceptual processes
during a period
of apparent clinical death
challenge the concept
that consciousness
is localized in the brain.
This is a concept shared
by every faith tradition
around the world.
- And yet today...
- I don't want this.
Science is proving it as fact.
- How can this really
be all there is?
How can there not be more?
And how do we not find ourselves
on the fast track to the grave?
- We only have five minutes
on this planet.
How do we make the most
of those five minutes?
It's possible to take
the best parts of ourselves
and take the five minutes
that the universe has given us
and break it down into seconds,
into milliseconds,
into nanoseconds
and live in between
those seconds
content, happy, and free.
- My mother,
who died recently,
never once told me
she loved me...
Never once.
How do I make the most
of my five minutes
knowing that?
Acceptance, that's how.
I-I accept that I have no...
I had no control over my mother
or her love.
And I-I let her go.
And I surround myself
with people who do love me.
- Loving begins with you.
Love begins with you,
but it rarely ends with you.
- It will lead you
into your own heart...
Into yourself.
And you will love yourself,
and you will love others.
And you will realize
just how much more there is
to this existence.
- Your mother said some things
before she died...
Things that were hard to hear.
- Yeah, well,
she tends to do that.
Sorry you had to suffer
her venom.
- Thank you.
- Thank you. Yeah.
- That's me.
- I just, um...
I couldn't let you walk away.
You're everything that...
Everything I said up there
was about you.
*
* This is a world
that I created *
*
* I created light
* From sweetness
* And darkness
* Created light
* This is a world
that I created *
*
* I created light
* Created light
* This is a world
that has been spoken *
*
* I created light
* Created light
* Oh, oh, oh
* Oh-oh-oh
* Oh-oh, oh
* Oh, oh, oh
* Oh-oh-oh
* Oh-oh, oh
* Oh, oh, oh
* Oh-oh-oh
* Oh-oh, oh
*
* Well, here it comes
- Hank.
- Why are you contacting Tessa?
- Wait, she told you?
- She's my daughter.
- I talk to her, Eddie.
Why are you contacting her?
- Come in.
Look, our families need
to be mended, Hank.
I'm doing 8R.
- What? Why?
And with whom are you doing 8R?
You've left The Movement.
- I have.
But I haven't left everything.
Steve chose me.
I'm climbing the rungs
with Richard and Felicia,
and when I am ready,
I am going to replace Cal.
Things can be better, Hank.
We can all be back together.
- Where did you get that?
- Steve wanted me to have it.
We can put all of this
back together.
- Are you bleeding?
*
* Every day
* In every way
* I'm getting
better and better *
* Despite what you say
* I know I will
* Climb up to heaven
* And never look down
*
* Never coming down
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org